---
name: THE VICES
genre: Alternative rock
day: vrijdag
time: 22:15 - 22:30
youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n8UYOSiuFY0
image: /static/img/vices_10_klein.jpg
---
Hailing from Groningen, Netherlands, The Vices craft rock music that vividly showcases their unique perspective and playful antics to bring back the grit of alternative rock. The Vices comprise Floris van Luijtelaar (vocals /guitar), Simon Bleeker (bass), Jonathan Kruizenga (guitar/keys), and Mathijs Louwsma (drums). They were conceived to embody the essence of their unconventional characters and the concept of "vice" itself—an acknowledgment of human imperfections and rebellious instincts. In crafting the band, each member sought to channel their unique quirks and diverse musical influences into a cohesive force, reflecting how vices often drive personal expression, creativity, and inner change. Embracing and challenging those vices established the identity of the band today. Finding solace in the band created a place where all the band members felt at home.

“I used to attend a school with many kids growing up on society's fringes. It was quite rough. Every Friday afternoon after school, I would go to my bandmates Floris and Mathew (before The Vices existed) to rehearse. This was always the moment when I found peace and could enjoy myself. It gave me a purpose to focus on,” Simon says, the bassist of The Vices.

The band’s name, The Vices, celebrates these flaws and quirks as essential to their artistic identity. By embracing and integrating their individual vices—their passion, defiance, or unconventional tastes—into their music, they create a distinctive sound that challenges norms and resonates with authenticity. Their work highlights the beauty of embracing one's imperfections and forges a powerful connection with audiences who appreciate a raw, unfiltered musical experience.

The Vices are carving out a distinct space in the music world by bringing back the fun and chaotic nature of live performances. Their captivating presence at the UK’s legendary Great
Escape Festival, renowned for showcasing a dynamic mix of emerging talent and industry icons, underscored their rising influence and alternative sound. They have also wowed audiences across Europe, delivering high-energy performances at renowned festivals like Sziget, Pinkpop, Best Kept Secret, and more, and blowing away fellow artists with their headlining shows to thousands of people. Their festival appearances in the States, including a notable performance at SXSW in Austin, further highlight their growing impact on the music scene. Each festival appearance highlights their exceptional live energy and showcases their ability to resonate within the global music landscape, earning them a reputation as a band to watch and experience in person. Building on their festival success, The Vices showcased their electrifying performances across North America with a sprawling 26-city tour.

Their U.S. tour, a bold and chaotic endeavor rarely undertaken by emerging indie rock bands from the Netherlands, highlights their dedication and ambition. This ambitious tour showcased The Vices through major cities and intimate venues, bringing their high-energy shows and captivating sound to diverse audiences. Their remarkable ability to transform every performance into an unforgettable experience, marked by raw, electrifying energy and charismatic stage presence, sets them apart as a band to watch in person. Navigating such an extensive, cross-country tour underscores their resilience and passion for their craft. Whether in grand arenas or cozy clubs, The Vices create moments of pure exhilaration and emotional resonance, making their live shows a must-see and affirming their place as a standout act in the indie rock scene.

“The tour showed us that we have to come back to the US. Before 2023, we weren’t planning on going to the US anytime soon. We had one goal, and that was to blow everyone's mind. Everyone should walk out with the feeling ‘what just happened.’ And it seemed to work!” Floris, the lead singer of The Vices, says. 

The band also takes bold steps and experiments with special projects beyond traditional promotions. For example, they performed their debut album on a boat while the tide went in, and they organized their own festival: ViceFest. After winning the Pop Stipendium prize of
10,000 euros, the band started expanding the festival internationally. Alongside the big one in hometown Groningen, ViceFest will also occur in London, Antwerp, Budapest, and Berlin.

With an exhilarating European tour on the horizon, The Vices are set to dazzle audiences across the continent while unveiling their eagerly awaited new album, "Before It Might Be Gone," scheduled for release on February 7th, 2025. The excitement around the album is already building, fueled by early acclaim and significant milestones. The Vices have been selected as a Spotify RADAR artist joining the ranks of emerging talents highlighted by Spotify's global artist development program. This prestigious recognition underscores the band’s rising influence within the music scene and positions them for success on a global scale.